https://youtu.be/qsiIDeAVRiM

## Transcript
What are examples of input pseudo-classes?

The appearance and behavior of input elements matter when building web forms. A form with inputs that respond to user actions goes a long way in improving user experience, and it should not cause confusion or frustration.

CSS provides several input pseudo-classes that can make your forms more intuitive and user-friendly. Let's look at these pseudo-classes in detail.

The `:focus` pseudo-class allows you to target an input element when a user selects or clicks on it, drawing attention to the active input field. This helps users easily identify where they're currently typing:

```css
input:focus {
  border: 2px solid crimson;
  outline: none;
}
```

As the name implies, the `:hover` pseudo-class is triggered when the user places the cursor over an element. It provides visual feedback before the user interacts with the input, effectively alerting them that the input is ready for action.

```css
input:hover {
  background-color: orange;
}
```

In the example above, the input element background changes to an orange color when the user hovers over it, letting them know that the field is ready for interaction.

The `:checked` pseudo-class lets you style a radio button or checkbox differently when a user selects it. This way, the user can easily see which option they've chosen.

Here is an example:

```html
<form>
  I have read the terms<input class="checkbox" type="checkbox">
</form>
```

```css
.checkbox:checked {
  appearance: none;
  width: 12px;
  height: 12px;
  background-color: coral;
}
```

`:required` targets input elements that have the `required` attribute. It signals to the user that they must fill out the field to submit the form.

The HTML below has a form with two required input elements:

```html
<form action="#">
  <label for="name">Name:</label>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" required />

  <label for="email">Email:</label>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" required />

  <label for="phone">Phone Number:</label>
  <input type="tel" id="phone" name="phone" />

  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

And this CSS applies an orange border of two pixels to the two required inputs:

```css
input:required {
  border: 2px solid orange;
}
```

When validating forms, you can use the `:valid` pseudo-class to style the input fields that meet the validation criteria, and `:invalid` to style the input fields that do not meet the criteria. Typically, you will use green for a valid input and red for an invalid input.

Here is an example using the `:valid` pseudo-class:

```css
input:valid {
  border-color: green;
}
```

Here is an example of using the `:invalid` pseudo-class:

```css
input:invalid {
  border-color: crimson;
}
```

The `:disabled` pseudo-class allows you to select and style input elements that are disabled. These elements have the `disabled` attribute, which prevents users from interacting with them. When an input is disabled, it cannot be clicked, focused, or edited.

Here is an example of a label and a disabled input element:

```html
<label for="name">Name:</label>
<input class="text-input" type="text" id="name" name="name" disabled />
```

In the CSS, we are targeting that disabled input and giving it a background color of `lightgray` and changing the cursor pointer to `not-allowed`.

```css
.text-input:disabled {
  background-color: lightgray;
  cursor: not-allowed;
}
```

The `cursor: not-allowed;` CSS property value changes the appearance of the cursor to indicate that an action is not permitted.

When applied to an element, it shows a cursor with a circle-slash symbol (usually a circle with a diagonal line through it) to signal to users that the element is not interactive or cannot be clicked or interacted with.

Here are some other examples of input pseudo-classes and what they do:

*   `:autofill`: applies styles to input fields that the browser automatically fills with saved data.
*   `:optional`: styles input elements that are not required and can be left empty.
*   `:in-range` and `:out-of-range`: style elements based on whether their values are within or outside specified range constraints.

---
## Questions
*Q1) What does the :focus pseudo-class let you do?*

A) It enables you to highlight multiple elements simultaneously.  
B) It allows you to style an input element when it is selected or clicked.  
C) It lets you automatically submit a form when an input is clicked.  
D) It allows you to reorder elements in a form dynamically.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) It allows you to style an input element when it is selected or clicked.**  

---

*Q2) What can the :valid and :invalid pseudo-classes be used for in form validation?*

A) They allow you to reset all input fields automatically.  
B) They let you provide different styles for inputs based on whether they meet validation criteria.  
C) They let you disable form submission if any field is left empty.  
D) They allow you to change the placeholder text dynamically.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) They let you provide different styles for inputs based on whether they meet validation criteria.**  

---

*Q3) Which pseudo-class allows you to style input fields that must be filled out before form submission?*

A) :optional  
B) :disabled  
C) :required  
D) :checked  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) :required**  

---
