https://youtu.be/gM7Tngm3QXo

## Transcript
Let's learn about ID's and classes, and when you should use them.

The id attribute adds a unique identifier to an HTML element. In this example, there is an h1 element with an id of title:
Example Code

```html
<h1 id="title">Movie Review Page</h1>
```

You can reference the id name of title within your JavaScript or CSS. Here's a CSS example referencing the id of title to change the text color to red:
Example Code

```css
#title {
  color: red;
}
```

The hash symbol (#) in front of title, tells the computer you want to target an id with that value. id names should not be used more than once, and they should always be unique. Another thing to note about id values, is that they cannot have spaces in them. Here is an example of applying the words main and heading to an id attribute value:
Example Code

```html
<h1 id="main heading">Main heading</h1>
```

Browsers will see this space as part of the id which will lead to unwanted issues when it comes to styling and scripting. id attribute values should only contain letters, digits, underscores, and dashes.

In contrast to the id attribute, the class attribute value does not need to be unique and can contain spaces. Here is an example of applying a class called box to a div element:
Example Code

```html
<div class="box"></div>
```

If you wanted to add multiple class names to an element, you can do so by separating the names by a space. Here is an updated example applying multiple classes to a div element:
Example Code

```html
<div class="box red-box"></div>
```

To apply a set of styles to that box class, you can reference that class inside your CSS. Here is an example of setting width, height, and border properties to the element with the class name of box:
Example Code

```css
.box {
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  border: 2px solid black;
}
```

The dot symbol (.) in front of box, tells the computer you want to target a class with that value. When the code runs, it will search through all of your HTML document to find all elements with that class name and apply those styles.

So, to recap, when should you use an id versus a class? Classes are best used when you want to apply a set of styles to many elements. If you want to target a specific element, it is best to use id because those values need to be unique.

---

## Questions
*Q) When should you use an id versus a class?*

A) Use a class when you want a unique identifier that should only apply to one element.  
B) Use an id when you need a unique identifier for a specific element, and use a class when you want to apply styles or behavior to multiple elements.  
C) Use an id when you want to style multiple elements consistently across different parts of your webpage.  
D) Use an id when you want to apply styles that can be easily overridden by other styles in your CSS.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Use an id when you need a unique identifier for a specific element, and use a class when you want to apply styles or behavior to multiple elements.**  

---

*Q) What happens if you use the same id more than once in your HTML?*

A) It can lead to unwanted results and issues when trying to apply styles or targeting an element in JavaScript.  
B) The program will crash.  
C) Nothing will happen.  
D) There will be a popup alert message in the browser window.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) It can lead to unwanted results and issues when trying to apply styles or targeting an element in JavaScript.**  

---

*Q) Which of the following is NOT a correct value for the id attribute?*

A) `id="heading"`  
B) `id="main-heading"`  
C) `id="main"`  
D) `id="main heading"`  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) id="main heading".**  

---

