In JavaScript, a string is a sequence of characters used to represent text data. Strings are one of the primitive data types in the language, along with numbers, booleans, `null`, and `undefined`.

To create a string in JavaScript, you can use single quotes (`'`), or double quotes (`"`).

Here is an example of creating two variables that hold string values:

```js
let singleQuotes = 'This is a string';
let doubleQuotes = "This is also a string";
```

Even though you can use single or double quotes to create strings, it's important to be consistent. If a string begins with a single quote, it must also end with a single quote.

The same applies to double quotes. The following example will throw an error because it starts with a double quote and ends with a single quote:

```js
const improperStr = "Do not do this';
```

Another thing to take into account is that strings are immutable. In programming, immutability means that once something is created, it cannot be changed. So, when you create a string, you can't change its characters directly. Instead, you would create a new string if you want to make changes.

Here is an example of assigning a new string to a `developer` variable:

```js
let developer = "Jessica";
developer = "Quincy";
```

Since strings are immutable, we can't update the first string directly. That is why we are assigning a new string to the `developer` variable.

Strings are an important part of programming, and in future lectures, you will learn advanced techniques for manipulating them and harnessing their full potential to create dynamic and interactive applications.

---

## Questions
*Q1) Which of the following is the correct syntax for creating strings in JavaScript?*

A) const str = <this is a string>  
B) const str = [this is a string]  
C) const str = "this is a string"  
D) const str = //this is a string//  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) const str = "this is a string"**  

---

*Q2) What happens if a string starts with a single quote and ends with a double quote?*

A) It creates a valid string.  
B) It will throw a syntax error.  
C) It creates a string with both quotes.  
D) It will be ignored by the JavaScript interpreter.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) It will throw a syntax error.**  

---

*Q3) Why are strings considered immutable in JavaScript?*

A) You cannot create strings using variables.  
B) Once a string is created, you cannot change its characters directly.  
C) Strings can only be created using literals.  
D) You can change strings, but only through global variables.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Once a string is created, you cannot change its characters directly.**  

---