What Are Some Other Examples of Video and Audio APIs?
-----------------------------------------------------

You've learned about the `HTMLMediaElement` and MediaStreams APIs, but there are a few more APIs that can be quite helpful in working with video and audio.

The first is the Screen Capture API. As the name might suggest, this API allows you to record a user's screen. This API is exposed by calling the `getDisplayMedia()` method of the `mediaDevices` object and consuming the returned media stream.

Then there is the MediaStream Recording API. This API works in tandem with the MediaStreams APIs, allowing you to record a MediaStream (or even an `HTMLMediaElement` directly). It then fires `dataavailable` events with Blob payloads you can write to the local file storage.

Underlying all of this technology is the Media Source Extensions API. The Media Source Extensions API is what allows you to directly pass a user's webcam feed to a video element with the `srcObject` property, for example.

And finally, the Web Audio API which powers everything audible on the web. This API includes important objects like an `AudioBuffer` (representing a Buffer specifically containing audio data) or the `AudioContext`.

And that wraps up our lessons on audio and video!

---

## Questions

1) What is the primary function of the Screen Capture API?

- To play video files.
- To record a user's screen.
- To edit video content.
- To stream video from external sources.

**Answer: To record a user's screen.**

---

2) Which method is used to access the Screen Capture API?

- getScreenMedia()
- captureScreen()
- getDisplayMedia()
- recordScreen()

**Answer: getDisplayMedia()**

---

3) Which API allows you to pass a user's webcam feed directly to a video element's srcObject property?

- Screen Capture API
- MediaStream Recording API
- Media Source Extensions API
- Web Audio API

**Answer: Media Source Extensions API**

---