How Can You Use Cookies to Store Arbitrary Data, Normally Controlled by HTTP Headers?
=====================================================================================

As you learned in previous lessons, cookies are simple data that websites can store on a user's device.

However, you can actually store more complex data structures in cookies. One common method is to use JSON to store objects or arrays. Here's an example:

```js
const userData = {
  name: "John Doe",
  age: 30,
  role: "admin"
};

document.cookie = "userInfo=" + JSON.stringify(userData) + "; path=/";
```

In this example, we're creating an object with user data, converting it to a JSON string, and then storing it in a cookie. When we want to retrieve this data, we can parse the JSON string into an object using `JSON.parse()`.

Now, you might be wondering about the "HTTP headers" aspect of our topic. Typically, cookies are set by the server using HTTP headers.

For example, a server might send a header like this:

```http
Set-Cookie: username=John Doe; expires=Thu, 31 Dec 2024 6:00:00 IST; path=/
```

This header tells the browser to set a cookie.

We can also set cookies directly in the browser using JavaScript. This is useful for storing data that doesn't need to be sent to the server immediately.

Please note that cookies have a size limit of around 4KB, and storing too much data in them may slow down your web app.

Storing large amounts of data in cookies can increase network traffic as cookies are sent with every HTTP request.

---

## Questions

1) What is the purpose of the 'expires' parameter when setting a cookie?

- It specifies which pages can access the cookie.
- It sets the maximum size of the cookie.
- It tells the browser when to delete the cookie.
- It encrypts the cookie data.

**Answer: It tells the browser when to delete the cookie.**

---

2) How can you store a complex data structure like an object in a cookie?

- Objects can be directly stored in cookies.
- By converting the object to a JSON string.
- By using multiple cookies for each object property.
- Complex data structures cannot be stored in cookies.

**Answer: By converting the object to a JSON string.**

---

3) What is a potential drawback of storing large amounts of data in cookies?

- It can slow down your web application.
- Cookies have unlimited storage capacity.
- It makes the website more secure.
- It improves server performance.

**Answer: It can slow down your web application.**

---
