https://youtu.be/d2wi5br6o0E

## Transcript
How can you repeat track listings in a grid layout?

In the previous lecture videos, we have been working with the `grid-template-columns` property and setting the value to a few fractional units.

```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr 1fr;
  column-gap: 10px;
}
```

While the following code is completely valid, there is an easier way to repeat a section or all of your track listings.

The `repeat()` function is used to repeat a section or all of the tracks for columns or rows. This function takes in a repeat count and the tracks you wish to repeat.

Here is a revised version of the earlier example using the repeat function:

```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(4, 1fr);
  column-gap: 10px;
}
```

There won't be a change for the styles in the browser, but this is a more concise way to write repeated values for the columns.

The `repeat()` function will accept any valid pattern that you can use for rows or columns.

In this example, we have HTML markup for a grid container:

```html
<div class="grid-container">
  <div class="box"></div>
  <div class="box"></div>
  <div class="box"></div>
  <div class="box"></div>
</div>
```

Then we are using the `repeat()` function to set the first and third columns to 20 pixels and the second and fourth columns to one fractional unit.

```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 20px 1fr);
  column-gap: 10px;
}

.grid-container div {
  height: 100px;
  background-color: darkblue;
}
```

Sometimes, you might opt to write out each individual value instead of using the `repeat()` function. But there are times when this function comes in handy, especially when you want to repeat a particular pattern for a track listing.

---
## Questions
*Q1) What is the purpose of the column-gap property in a CSS Grid layout?*

A)
```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(1fr times 4);
  column-gap: 10px;
}
```

B)
```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(4, 1fr);
  column-gap: 10px;
}
```

C)
```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: multiply(4, 1fr);
  column-gap: 10px;
}
```

D)
```css
.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeatSections(4, 1fr);
  column-gap: 10px;
}
```

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B)**  

---

*Q2) What is the primary benefit of using the repeat() function in the grid-template-columns property?*

A) It allows repeating column definitions more concisely and reduces redundancy.  
B) It makes the code run faster.  
C) It leads to error free code.  
D) It makes the web page more responsive.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) It allows repeating column definitions more concisely and reduces redundancy.**  

---

*Q3) What is the result of setting grid-template-columns to repeat(2, 20px 1fr);?*

A) It creates four columns all set to 1fr wide.  
B) It creates two columns where each is set to 20px wide.  
C) It creates four columns where the first and third are 20px wide, and the second and fourth are 1fr wide.  
D) It creates three columns where the first and second are 20px wide, and the third is fr wide.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) It creates four columns where the first and third are 20px wide, and the second and fourth are 1fr wide.**  

---
