https://youtu.be/ZUhV2wrlOXY

## Transcript
What is the specificity for ID selectors?

ID selectors are among the most powerful selectors in CSS, allowing developers to apply styles to specific elements with unique identifiers.

This makes them highly effective for targeting individual elements that need unique styling.

ID selectors are defined by a hash symbol (`#`) followed by the ID name. They should be unique within an HTML document, meaning no two elements should share the same ID.

Here is an example using an ID selector:

```css
#unique {
  color: purple;
}
```

In this example, the element with the ID `unique` will have its text color set to `purple`.

ID selectors have a very high specificity, higher than type selectors and class selectors, but lower than inline styles. The specificity value for an ID selector is `(0, 1, 0, 0)`.

This means that ID selectors can override class selectors and type selectors but can be overridden by inline styles.

ID selectors can be combined with other selectors to create even more specific rules.

Here is an example of combining a `div` type selector with an ID selector called `unique`:

```css
div#unique {
  font-size: 20px;
}
```

This rule applies only to `div` elements that have the `unique` ID, setting their font size to `20px`.

---
## Questions
*Q) What is the specificity value of an ID selector (e.g., #example)?*

A) (1, 0, 0, 0)  
B) (0, 1, 0, 0)  
C) (0, 0, 1, 0)  
D) (0, 0, 0, 1)  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) (1, 0, 0, 0)**  

---

*Q) Which of the following selectors has a lower specificity than an ID selector?*

A) A class selector.  
B) An inline style.  
C) An attribute selector.  
D) None of the above.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) A class selector.**  

---

*Q) Given the following CSS, what will be the color of the text?*

```html
<head>
  <style>
    #unique {
      color: purple;
    }
    .highlight {
      color: green;
    }
    p {
      color: blue;
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body>
  <p id="unique" class="highlight">This text</p>
</body>
```

A) green

B) blue

C) red

D) purple

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) purple**  

---
