https://youtu.be/_FWK8pqUUXo

## Transcript
Why is it important for inputs to have an associated label?

Labels on input fields might seem like small details, but they play a crucial role in making forms easier for everyone to use.

Labels help people with disabilities, make forms more user-friendly for everyone, and ultimately improve form conversion rates.

Let's dive into why adding labels to input elements is important for accessibility and usability.

Screen readers often rely on labels to describe the purpose of input fields. In order for this to work properly, the label must be programmatically associated with the `input`. While there are several ways to do that, the most common is to use the HTML `label` element.

Here's how to associate a `label` with an `input`:

```html
<form>
   <label for="name">Your Name</label>
   <input type="text" id="name" />
</form>
```

In this example, the `for` attribute of the `label` element is associated with the `id` of the `input` element. This connection allows screen readers to announce the `label` when the `input` is in a focused state, allowing screen reader users to understand the purpose of the `input`.

Associating labels with all input fields also benefits SEO. With proper labels, search engines will understand the page content better, leading to a positive impact on the page search rankings.

But it is important to understand that you're making content for humans, not search engines. So, you should make sure the labels are as clear and descriptive as possible.

---
## Questions
*Q) Why is adding labels to input elements important for accessibility?*

A) They provide visual styling to input fields.  
B) They help screen readers describe the purpose of input fields.  
C) They increase the loading speed of web pages.  
D) They enable input fields to accept multiple types of data.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) They help screen readers describe the purpose of input fields.**  

---

*Q) How do labels associated with input fields improve keyboard navigation?*

A) They enhance the visual appearance of input fields.  
B) They allow users to tab through input fields without getting lost.  
C) They reduce the need for keyboard shortcuts.  
D) They let input fields accept special characters.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) They allow users to tab through input fields without getting lost.**  

---

*Q) How do labels associated with input fields help in identifying errors?*

A) They allow input fields to accept longer text.  
B) They help screen readers announce the label along with the error message.  
C) They prevent users from submitting forms.  
D) They make input fields more colorful.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) They help screen readers announce the label along with the error message.**  

---