https://youtu.be/LNv_JZogKy0

## Transcript
What is the purpose of WAI-ARIA, and how does it work?

Making static content accessible can be relatively straightforward, but dynamic content can be more challenging. This is where WAI-ARIA comes in.

Let's look at what WAI-ARIA is, its purpose, how it works, and some examples.

WAI-ARIA stands for Web Accessibility Initiative - Accessible Rich Internet Applications. It's a specification that enhances accessibility for dynamic content and UI (User Interface) components.

Note that WCAG and WAI-ARIA are not the same. WCAG provides general guidelines for web accessibility, while WAI-ARIA offers specific rules for making dynamic and interactive content accessible for users of assistive technologies.

So, the primary purpose of WAI-ARIA is to improve accessibility for dynamic content and UI components that do not have native HTML equivalents.

WAI-ARIA works by introducing a set of attributes you can add to HTML elements to provide additional semantic information. These attributes are categorized into roles, states, and properties.

ARIA role defines the purpose of an element within a website or web app. Here is an example of setting the role to `button` for a `div` element.

```html
<div role="button">Click Me</div>
```

By doing this you are indicating to assistive technology that the element is a button. Roles do not provide any functionality however. Merely giving this `div` a `role` of `button` will not make it act like a button. To make it look and behave like a button you would need to use CSS and JavaScript to get the desired result. It is always better to use the native `button` or `input` element with `type="button"` instead.

Since HTML alone does not provide a way to make custom UI components like tabbed navigation (tab list) accessible, ARIA roles can be very helpful.

Here's what a tablist could look like with the `role` attribute:

```html
<div role="tablist" aria-label="Football Match Dashboard">
   <button
     role="tab"
     aria-selected="true"
     aria-controls="match-info-panel"
     id="match-info-tab">
       Match Info
   </button>

   <button
     role="tab"
     aria-selected="false"
     aria-controls="player-stats-panel"
     id="player-stats-tab">
     Player Stats
   </button>
</div>
```

Each tab in the tablist will have an associated tab panel that will display when its tab is selected. Each tab panel will have a `role` of `tabpanel`.

Here's what each of those tab panels could look like:

```html
<div 
  role="tabpanel"
  id="match-info-panel" 
  aria-labelledby="match-info-tab"
>
   <p>
     Details about the match, including date,
     time, venue, and current score.
   </p>
</div>

<div
   role="tabpanel"
   id="player-stats-panel"
   aria-labelledby="player-stats-tab"
   hidden
>
   <p>
     Individual player statistics such as goals,
     assists, and minutes played.
   </p>
</div>
```

ARIA state describes the current status of an element, which can change based on user interactions. An example is the `aria-expanded` attribute for collapsible sections:

```html
<button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="more-info">
  More Info
</button>

<div id="more-info" hidden>
   <p>This is additional information.</p>
</div>
```

Again, this is merely describing the state, it does not provide any functionality. You would have to use JavaScript to change the state of the attribute when the user clicks the button.

ARIA properties provide additional details about elements. For example, the `aria-labelledby` property lets you connect an element to a specific label:

```html
<h2 id="header-id">About freeCodeCamp</h2>
<button id="button-id" aria-labelledby="header-id button-id">Learn More</button>
```

This will make the elements understandable and navigable for users of assistive technologies.

To get the best out of WAI-ARIA, try to stick with native HTML whenever possible since it generally provides more accessibility out of the box.

Use WAI-ARIA only when HTML falls short, and don’t forget to test with assistive technologies like screen readers, or have people with disabilities test your work. Also, make sure your WAI-ARIA states and properties update with the content in real time. Avoid overusing ARIA as it can be confusing many times.

---
## Questions
*Q) What is the primary purpose of WAI-ARIA attributes in HTML?*

A) To change the visual appearance of elements.  
B) To provide additional semantic information for accessibility.  
C) To display tooltips on elements.  
D) To add animations to elements.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) To provide additional semantic information for accessibility.**  

---

*Q) How does WAI-ARIA work to enhance web accessibility?*

A) By improving page load speed.  
B) By introducing attributes that provide additional semantic information.  
C) By encrypting data.  
D) By creating visual effects for elements.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) By introducing attributes that provide additional semantic information.**  

---

*Q) What does WAI-ARIA stand for?*

A) Web Accessibility Initiative - Advanced Responsive Internet Applications  
B) Web Accessibility Interface - Accessible Resource Internet Applications  
C) Web Accessibility Initiative - Accessible Rich Internet Applications  
D) Web Application Interface - Accessibility and Richness  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) Web Accessibility Initiative - Accessible Rich Internet Applications.**  

---