In JavaScript, the `indexOf()` method is useful for finding the first index of a specific element within an array. If the element cannot be found, then it will return `-1`. Here is the basic syntax:

```js
array.indexOf(element, fromIndex)
```

`element` represents the value you want to search for within the array, and the `fromIndex` parameter is the position from which the search should start. The `fromIndex` parameter is optional. If `fromIndex` is not provided, the search starts from the beginning of the array. Let's look at an example:

```js
let fruits = ["apple", "banana", "orange", "banana"];
let index = fruits.indexOf("banana");
console.log(index); // 1
```

In this example, we have an array `fruits` containing various fruit names. We use the `indexOf()` method to find the index of the string `banana` within the `fruits` array. Since `banana` is present at index `1`, the method returns `1`, which is stored in the `index` variable and logged to the console.

If the element you're searching for is not found in the array, `indexOf()` returns `-1`. For example:

```js
let fruits = ["apple", "banana", "orange"];
let index = fruits.indexOf("grape");
console.log(index); // -1
```

Here, we search for the string `grape` in the fruits array using `indexOf()`. Since `grape` is not present in the array, the method returns `-1`, which is stored in the `index` variable and logged to the console.

If you want to start looking for an item after a specific index number, then you can pass a second argument like in this example:

```js
let colors = ["red", "green", "blue", "yellow", "green"];
let index = colors.indexOf("green", 3);
console.log(index); // 4
```

In this example, the search does not start from the start of an array, rather it starts from the index number `3` which is `yellow` and gets the output of `4`.

---
## Questions

*Q1) What will be the output of the following code?*

```js
let numbers = [10, 20, 30, 20, 40];  
let index = numbers.indexOf(20);  
console.log(index);
```

A) 0  
B) 1  
C) 2  
D) 3  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) 1**

---

*Q2) What will be the output of the following code?*

```js
let fruits = ["apple", "banana", "orange", "grape"];  
let index = fruits.indexOf("kiwi");  
console.log(index);
```

A) 0  
B) -1  
C) undefined  
D) An error will occur.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) -1**

---

*Q3) What will be the output of the following code?*

```js
let colors = ["red", "green", "blue", "yellow", "green"];  
let index = colors.indexOf("green", 2);  
console.log(index);
```

A) 1  
B) 2  
C) 4  
D) -1  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) 4**

---