There are two powerful methods in JavaScript for handling JSON data: `JSON.parse()` and `JSON.stringify()`. These methods are commonly used to convert between JSON strings and JavaScript objects.

`JSON.stringify()`is used to convert a JavaScript object into a JSON string. This is useful when you want to store or transmit data in a format that can be easily shared or transferred between systems.

Here's how you can use the`JSON.stringify()` method:

```js
const user = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  isAdmin: true
};

const jsonString = JSON.stringify(user);
console.log(jsonString);
```

In the example, the JavaScript object`user`is converted into a JSON string that looks like this:

```js
'{"name":"John","age":30,"isAdmin":true}'
```

The `JSON.stringify()` method also accepts an optional parameter called a replacer, which can be a function or an array. Here is an example of using an array for the optional replacer parameter:

```js
const developerObj = {
  firstName: "Jessica",
  isAwesome: true,
  isMusician: true,
  country: "USA",
};

// result: {"firstName":"Jessica","country":"USA"}
console.log(JSON.stringify(developerObj, ["firstName", "country"]));
```

In this example, we have a `developerObj` with four properties. When we use the `JSON.stringify()` method, we can pass in an array for the second parameter and specify which properties we want stringified. The result will be a stringified object containing only the `firstName` and `country` properties.

Another optional parameter for the `JSON.stringify()` method would be the spacer parameter. This allows you to control the spacing for the stringified result:

```js
const developerObj = {
  firstName: "Jessica",
  isAwesome: true,
  isMusician: true,
  country: "USA",
};

console.log(JSON.stringify(developerObj, null, 2));

/* result
{
  "firstName": "Jessica",
  "isAwesome": true,
  "isMusician": true,
  "country": "USA"
}
*/
```

Most of the time you will not be using either of these optional parameters for the `JSON.stringify()` method but it is still helpful to be aware of them.

Another method you will be using a lot in your programming is the `JSON.parse()` method. `JSON.parse()` converts a JSON string back into a JavaScript object. This is useful when you retrieve JSON data from a web server or from `localStorage` and you need to manipulate the data in your application. You will learn more about `localStorage` in a future lecture.

Here's an example on how to work with the `JSON.parse()` method:

```js
const jsonString = '{"name":"John","age":30,"isAdmin":true}';
const userObject = JSON.parse(jsonString);
```

The JSON string is parsed back into a JavaScript object that looks like this:

```js
{
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  isAdmin: true
}
```

This allows you to work with the data in your program as a normal JavaScript object, making it easier to manipulate and use.

In future modules, we will continue to learn more about how to work with JSON and the `JSON.parse()` and `JSON.stringify()` methods.

---
## Questions

*Q1) What does JSON.stringify() do?*

A) It converts a JSON string into a JavaScript object.  
B) It converts a JavaScript object into a JSON string.  
C) It sends data to a web server.  
D) It converts an array into a string.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) It converts a JavaScript object into a JSON string.**

---

*Q2) What does JSON.parse() do?*

A) It converts a JavaScript object into a JSON string.  
B) It stores data in local storage.  
C) It converts a JSON string into a JavaScript object.  
D) It sends data over the network.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) It converts a JSON string into a JavaScript object.**

---

*Q3) Given the following JSON string, how would you convert it back into a JavaScript object and access the "age" value?*

const jsonString = '{"name":"Alice","age":25}';

A) jsonString.name  
B) JSON.stringify(jsonString).age  
C) JSON.parse(jsonString).age  
D) jsonString[1]  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) JSON.parse(jsonString).age**

---