To install VS Code, you'll want to visit their website to get the appropriate installer for your operating system. Make sure you visit the VS Code website, and not the Visual Studio website.

For Windows, you can download an EXE installer. Once you've downloaded it, run the file and the setup wizard will take you through the installation process.

For Mac, you can download a zip archive which contains a `.app` that you can run. You can also install VS Code via homebrew.

Open up the Terminal app on your Mac and run the following command:

```sh
brew install --cask visual-studio-code
```

On Linux, you can download a `.deb` or `.rpm` file directly. Once you have it installed, you can use the appropriate executable, or CLI command (typically `code`), to launch the application. And now you're ready to code.

---

## Questions
*Q1) What's an important distinction to make when downloading Visual Studio Code?*

A) Ensure you're downloading from the official Microsoft website.  
B) Make sure you're on the VS Code website, not the Visual Studio website.  
C) Verify that you're downloading the latest version.  
D) Check that your operating system is compatible.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Make sure you're on the VS Code website, not the Visual Studio website.**  

---

*Q2) Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a method to install VS Code on macOS?*

A) Downloading a .zip archive.  
B) Using the Mac App Store.  
C) Using Homebrew.  
D) Running a .app file.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Using the Mac App Store.**  

---

*Q3) What command would you use to install VS Code using Homebrew?*

A) sudo brew -i code  
B) sudo yum install code  
C) brew install --cask visual-studio-code  
D) homebrew install vscode  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) brew install --cask visual-studio-code**  

---