You're likely already familiar with some of the basic shortcuts, which are inherited from your operating system. Shortcuts like `Ctrl + S` to save, `Ctrl + C` to copy, and `Ctrl + V` to paste all work in VS Code.

But there's a few that are application specific and can still level up your productivity. It's worth noting that some of these shortcuts may differ by operating system.

For example, `Shift + Alt + F` will run your configured formatter (such as prettier, for a JavaScript project) on the currently opened file.

Or `Ctrl + Shift + F` (Windows), or `Cmd + Shift + F` (Mac), to search the text contents of all the files in your workspace. Then `Ctrl + Shift + H` (Windows), or `Cmd + Shift + H` (Mac), if you want to run a find-and-replace.

If you need to remove a line, `Ctrl + Shift + K` (Windows), or `Cmd + Shift + K` (Mac), will delete it.

Need some extra room for all your code? `Ctrl + B` (Windows), or `Cmd + B` (Mac), will hide the sidebar - which has the file list and extensions menu.

Or maybe you just can't see your code? `Ctrl + plus` (Windows), or `Cmd + plus` (Mac), will increase the scaling of the editor, and `Ctrl + minus` (Windows), or `Cmd + minus` (Mac), will decrease it.

Finally, if you forget any of these shortcuts, you always have `Ctrl + Shift + P` (Windows), or `Cmd + Shift + P` (Mac), which opens the command palette for you to select whatever you may need.

With this knowledge, and maybe a little practice, you are well on your way to becoming a VS Code power user.

---

*Q1) Which Windows keyboard shortcut is used to run the configured formatter on the currently opened file in VS Code?*

A) Ctrl + F  
B) Shift + Alt + F  
C) Ctrl + Shift + F  
D) Alt + F4  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Shift + Alt + F**  

---

*Q2) What function does the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + Shift + K (Windows/Linux) or Cmd + Shift + K (macOS) perform in VS Code?*

A) Opens the command palette.  
B) Increases the editor's text size.  
C) Deletes the current line.  
D) Hides the sidebar.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) Deletes the current line.**  

---

*Q3) Which Windows keyboard shortcut opens the command palette in VS Code?*

A) Ctrl + P  
B) Ctrl + Shift + P  
C) Alt + F4  
D) Ctrl + Space  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Ctrl + Shift + P**  

---