https://youtu.be/QFxNWsesW6Q

## Transcript
How do you display mathematical equations and chemical formulas in HTML?

The superscript element is used to display a piece of text as a superscript. A superscript is a symbol or letter printed above the normal line of text.

Here is an example using the superscript element to illustrate exponents:

```html
<p>2<sup>2</sup> (2 squared) is 4.</p>
```

In this example, the number 2 is wrapped in sup tags to represent the superscript inside the paragraph. In the browser, you would see that the second number 2 is smaller and slightly higher than the first number 2.

Common use cases for the superscript element would include exponents, superior lettering, and ordinal numbers. Here is an example using the superscript element for superior lettering:

```html
<p>
  Monseigneur is often written as <strong>M<sup>gr</sup></strong>.
</p>
```

Superior lettering refers to letters written in superscript, usually to indicate abbreviations. The letters g and r are wrapped inside superscript tags to illustrate the abbreviation in this example.

It is important to note that the superscript element should only be used for typographical reasons. If you want style a piece of text with a raised baseline, then you should use CSS instead of the superscript element.

To represent chemical equations inside HTML, you would use the subscript element. This element uses a subscript which displays a lowered baseline using smaller text.

Here is an example of using the subscript element to show the chemical representation for carbon dioxide.

```html
<p>CO<sub>2</sub></p>
```

The number two is wrapped inside sub tags to illustrate that the character should be a subscript.

Common uses cases for the subscript element include chemical formulas, foot notes, and variable subscripts.

---

## Questions
*Q) What is the primary use of the superscript element in HTML?*

A) To display text in a different color.  
B) To show text in a smaller font size.  
C) To display text as a superscript above the normal line of text.  
D) To underline text.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) To display text as a superscript above the normal line of text.**  

---

*Q) Which of the following is an example of using the superscript element correctly?*

A) `<p>2<sub>2</sub> (2 squared) is 4.</p>`  
B) `<p>2<sup>2</sup> (2 squared) is 4.</p>`  
C) `<p>2<sul>2</sul> (2 squared) is 4.</p>`  
D) `<p>2<sutp>2</sutp> (2 subscript) is 4.</p>`  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) `<p>2<sup>2</sup> (2 squared) is 4.</p>`.**  

---

*Q) What should be used instead of the superscript element if you want to style text with a raised baseline for typographical reasons?*

A) The sub element.  
B) CSS  
C) The strong element.  
D) The em element.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) CSS.**  

---
