https://youtu.be/P1OCt7x5zSA

## Transcript
How do you display addresses in HTML?

The contact address element is used to represent contact information for a section on a web page. The address element is versatile and can be used for business pages, author pages, personal sites, and more.

When it comes to building out your website's contact sections, you should use the semantic address element over a generic element like a div.

Here is an example of using the address element for a company contact page:

```html
<address>
  <h2>Company Name</h2>
  <p>
    1234 Elm Street<br />
    Springfield, IL 62701<br />
    United States
  </p>
  <p>Phone: <a href="tel:+15555555555">+1 (555) 555-5555</a></p>
  <p>Email: <a href="mailto:contact@company.com">contact@company.com</a></p>
</address>
```

In this example, there is the company name, physical address, phone, and email information. For the physical address, the line break element, br, is used to show the division between the street name, city, and country.

For the phone number, we have an anchor element with the href value set for telephone numbers. The tel:+ value inside the href attribute creates a clickable link to initiate a phone call on certain devices that support that.

For the email address, another anchor element is used with the href value set to a mailto link. mailto links are used in HTML documents to allow users to open a new email within their preferred email client.

One of the downsides of using a mailto link is that users often perceive it as spam. Unfortunately, a lot of spammers will use this option to send emails to users. So just keep that in mind when you're using it.

---

## Questions
*Q) What is the purpose of the address element?*

A) It's used to define a section for navigation links.  
B) It's used to represent contact information for a section on a web page.  
C) It's used to set the font style for a section of the page.  
D) It's used to group content for styling with CSS.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) It's used to represent contact information for a section on a web page.**  

---

*Q) What is the mailto link used for?*

A) It's used to link to a webpage.  
B) It's used to create a file download link.  
C) It's used to redirect to another website.  
D) It's used to allow users to open a new email within their preferred email client.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) It's used to allow users to open a new email within their preferred email client.**  

---

*Q) What is a downside to using mailto links?*

A) These links are a target for spammers to send emails to users.  
B) These links automatically create a webpage.  
C) These links enhance website SEO.  
D) These links improve website loading speed.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) These links are a target for spammers to send emails to users.**  

---
