https://youtu.be/fq65B7JnEjM

## Transcript
Now that we understand what HTML is, let's move onto the fun stuff! I am going to look at the Content Division Element - or in other words, the div:
Example Code

```html
<div></div>
```

I like to think of the div as a beautiful being that can be anything you want it to be. We can give a div a height, we can give it a width, and we can give it a background color using CSS - or in other words styling, which we will cover in lectures coming up.

We can also use it in a very basic form without styling, to hold other elements together. So for example, we can create a div and put a heading in it, and put a paragraph in it, and now these two elements will be grouped together:
Example Code

```html
<div>
  <h1>I am a heading</h1>
  <p>I am a paragraph</p>
</div>
```

Just be aware that there might be better elements to use when grouping these together. You might choose a section element, for example:
Example Code

```html
<section>
  <h1>I am a heading</h1>
  <p>I am a paragraph</p>
</section>
```

This is because the section element has semantic meaning. Semantics are the meaning of words or phrases in a language. In HTML, which is a language, elements have their own semantic meaning too. So, this means if you use a section element, the browser will pick up its semantic meaning and understand to treat this as a section - on desktops, mobiles, you name it. 

We will dive into this topic further later on. For now, just know that the div, does not have this. It's like a mysterious ghost. Let's see what else we can do to a div, in the next lecture.

---

## Questions
*Q) What semantic meaning does a div element have?*

A) The div element represents a container for introductory content or a set of navigational links.  
B) The div element defines a footer for a document or section.  
C) The div specifies the main page content and should be unique.  
D) The div element has no semantic meaning.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) The div element has no semantic meaning.**  

---

*Q) Which of the following is the correct syntax for a div element?*

A) `<divEl>content goes here</divEl>`  
B) `<div>content goes here</div>`  
C) `<divElement>content goes here</divElement>`  
D) `<divGroup>content goes here</divGroup>`  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) <div>content goes here</div>.**  

---

*Q) Which of the following HTML elements is commonly used to group content into distinct sections?*

A) section  
B) aside  
C) nav  
D) h1  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) section.**  

---

