https://youtu.be/nNCwy4QUh8Q

## Transcript
Let's learn about the script element, and how to use it to link to external JavaScript files.

The script element is used to embed executable code. Most developers will use this to execute JavaScript code. JavaScript is used to add interactivity to your web pages. Common examples of using JavaScript include interactive games, image sliders, and dynamic forms that validate user input in real-time. Here is an example of using the script element in an HTML document:

```html
<body>
  <script>
    alert("Welcome to freeCodeCamp");
  </script>
</body>
```

In this example, we have an alert to display the message Welcome to freeCodeCamp. When the page first loads, the alert will pop up. Then the user can click on the OK button to dismiss the message.

While you can technically write all of your JavaScript code inside the script tags, it is considered best practice to link to an external JavaScript file instead. Here is an example of using the script element to link to an external JavaScript file:

```html
<script src="path-to-javascript-file.js"></script>
```

The src attribute is used here to specify the location for that external JavaScript file. src stands for "source". The reason why it is not encouraged to place all of your JavaScript inside the HTML document is because of separation of concerns. Separation of concerns is a design principle where you separate your programs into distinct sections and have each section address a separate concern. In this case, we want to separate our JavaScript code from our HTML code.

---

## Questions
*Q) Which attribute is used to link to an external JavaScript file?*

A) The div attribute.  
B) The defer attribute.  
C) The async attribute.  
D) The src attribute.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) The src attribute.**  

---

*Q) What is separation of concerns?*

A) It's about making sure everyone on the team has their own clear responsibilities.  
B) A design principle where you separate your programs into distinct sections and have each section address a separate concern.  
C) The act of combining all aspects of a program into a single module for simplicity.  
D) It involves dividing up tasks among team members without considering how they might overlap or affect each other.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) A design principle where you separate your programs into distinct sections and have each section address a separate concern.**  

---

*Q) Which of the following is the correct syntax for linking to an external JavaScript file?*

A) `<script div="path-to-javascript-file.js"></script>`  
B) `<script alt="path-to-javascript-file.js"></script>`  
C) `<script src="path-to-javascript-file.js"></script>`  
D) `<script defer="path-to-javascript-file.js"></script>`  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) <script src="path-to-javascript-file.js"></script>.**  

---
