There are several ways to remove properties from an object, with the `delete` operator being the most straightforward and commonly used method.

When you use `delete`, it removes the selected property from the object. Here's an example of how to use the `delete` operator:

```js
const person = {
  name: "Alice",
  age: 30,
  job: "Engineer"
};

delete person.job;

console.log(person.job); // undefined
```

In this example, we start with a `person` object that has three properties: `name`, `age`, and `job`. Then, we use the `delete` operator to remove the `job` property. After the deletion, the `person` object no longer has the `job` property.

Another way to remove properties is by using destructuring assignment with rest parameters. This approach doesn't actually delete the property, but it creates a new object without the specified properties:

```js
const person = {
  name: "Bob",
  age: 25,
  job: "Designer",
  city: "New York"
};

const { job, city, ...remainingProperties } = person;

// { name: "Bob", age: 25 }
console.log(remainingProperties);
```

In this example, we use destructuring to extract `job` and `city` from the `person` object, and collect the remaining properties into a new object called `remainingProperties`. This creates a new object without the `job` and `city` properties.

Understanding how to remove properties from objects is an important skill in JavaScript programming. It allows you to manipulate objects dynamically, and clean up unnecessary data.

---
## Questions

*Q1) What will be the output of the following code?*

```js
let obj = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3};  
delete obj.b;  
console.log(obj);
```

A) {a: 1, c: 3}  
B) {a: 1, b: undefined, c: 3}  
C) {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3}  
D) This will throw an error.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) {a: 1, c: 3}**

---

*Q2) What will be the output of the following code?*

```js
let car = {  
    brand: "Toyota",  
    model: "Corolla",  
    year: 2020  
};  
delete car.year;  
console.log(car.year);
```

A) 2020  
B) undefined  
C) null  
D) This will throw an error.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) undefined**

---

*Q3) Which operator is commonly used to remove properties from an object in JavaScript?*

A) remove  
B) delete  
C) erase  
D) clear  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) delete**

---