https://youtu.be/grui-CD6Uck

## Transcript
What are different types of image licenses, and how do they work?

Images are considered intellectual property, this means that they are protected by copyright regulations, most often belonging to the creator. By default, images are released as all rights reserved. The creator, or publisher sometimes, holds all copyright for the image.

This means that you cannot use them in your web page unless you do one of three things: obtain written permission from the copyright holder, purchase a license from the copyright holder, or incorporate the image in a way that falls under fair use.

That third point is a bit tricky. Fair use requires that your use of the image is both limited and transformative. Some examples of fair use would be to comment on or review the art or create a parody of the image.

Some images might be released under a permissive license, like a Creative Commons license, or the BSD license that freeCodeCamp uses. These images are available for use in your website, but you'll need to read the license to understand the rules you need to follow when using these images. For example, you might be required to make your website open source, or you may not be permitted to modify the image in any way.

Finally, some images may be released to the public domain. An image under the public domain has no copyright attached to it and is free to be used without any restrictions. Images licensed specifically under the Creative Commons 0 license are considered public domain.

Most search engines will allow you to filter image results by a license. There are also sites like Pixabay and Unsplash, which offer free-to-use images. Always be mindful of the copyright and licensing when you use an image in your website.

---

## Questions
*Q) What is the default license for images?*

A) All rights reserved  
B) Permissive license  
C) Public Domain  
D) Creative Commons  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) All rights reserved.**  

---

*Q) Which license releases works to the public domain?*

A) MIT  
B) BSD  
C) Creative Commons  
D) Creative Commons 0  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) Creative Commons 0.**  

---

*Q) How can you find images that you are allowed to use?*

A) Search for images on Google and use them freely.  
B) Use websites like Pixabay or Unsplash.  
C) Use any image from social media as long as you give credit.  
D) You can use any image as long as it's not watermarked.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) Use websites like Pixabay or Unsplash.**  

---