https://youtu.be/tlumOah6l4k

## Transcript
What are the different types of buttons, and when should you use them?

The button element is used to perform a particular action when it is activated. Here is an example of a button element with the button text of Start Game.

```html
<button>Start Game</button>
```

Other examples of using the button element include submitting a form, showing a modal, or toggling a side menu open and closed. The button element has a type attribute which controls the behavior of the button when it is activated. The first possible value for the type attribute would be the button type. Here is an example of using the button element with the button type and a text of Show Alert:

```html
<button type="button">Show Alert</button>
```

By default, the button will not do anything when activated. However, you can add some JavaScript code to make the button interactive, such as showing an alert in this case. Another possible value for the type attribute is the submit value. Here is an example of using a button element with the submit type:

```html
<form action="">
  <label for="email">Email address:</label>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
  <button type="submit">Submit form</button>
</form>
```

Inside this form element, there is a label and input element for the user's email address. When the user clicks on the submit button, their data will be sent to the server and will be processed. The third possible value for the type attribute is the reset value. Here is an example of a form element with reset and submit buttons:

```html
<form action="">
  <label for="email">Email address:</label>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
  <button type="reset">Reset form</button>
  <button type="submit">Submit form</button>
</form>
```

In this modified example, a label and input element are used to collect the user's email address. When the user clicks on the reset button, then it will clear out all of their input data. It is important to note that reset buttons are usually not the best idea because they could lead to users accidentally resetting their data. Also, multiple buttons in your form could clutter up the user interface.

Another way to create buttons in HTML is to use the input element. The input element also has a type attribute with the possible values of submit, reset, and button. Here is an example of using the input element with the type set to button:

```html
<input type="button" value="Show Alert" />
```

The value attribute is used to show the button text. So, what is the difference between using the input and button elements? input elements are void elements, which means they cannot have child nodes, such as text, and can only have a start tag. On the other hand, the button element offers more flexibility because you can nest text, images, and icons inside it.

---
## Questions
*Q) Which of the following is NOT a valid value for the type attribute inside buttons?*

A) src  
B) button  
C) reset  
D) submit  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) src.**  

---

*Q) What is the role of type="reset" inside the button element?*

A) It submits the form data.  
B) It only resets textarea elements.  
C) It resets the form.  
D) There is no behavior for the reset type.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **C) It resets the form.**  

---

*Q) What is another element you can use to represent a button?*

A) img  
B) form  
C) header  
D) input  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **D) input.**  

---

