How Do You Add Attributes with setAttribute()?
----------------------------------------------

You may be familiar with working with attributes in your HTML and CSS projects. But did you know that you can add attributes to your HTML elements in your JavaScript file?

In this lesson, you will learn how to work with the `setAttribute()` method to add attributes to your HTML elements.

Here is the basic syntax:

```
setAttribute(attribute, value);
```

Let's take a look at a few examples to better understand how to use the `setAttribute()` method.

In this first example, we have a `p` element inside the HTML:

```
<p id="para">I am a paragraph</p>
```

To add a `class` attribute we first need to access that `p` element using the `getElementById()` method. Then we can use the `setAttribute()` method to add the `class` attribute and set the value to `my-class`.

We are using `outerHTML` to log the entire HTML element including its attributes.

```
<p id="para">I am a paragraph</p>
<script src="index.js"></script>
```

```
const para = document.getElementById("para");
para.setAttribute("class", "my-class");

console.log(`${para.outerHTML}`);
```

If you have an existing attribute on an HTML element, you can update its value using the `setAttribute()` method.

In this example we have a `div` element with a `class` attribute set to `my-class`:

```
<div class="my-class"></div>
```

To update the `class` attribute value to example, we can use the `setAttribute()` method again:

```
<div class="my-class"></div>
<script src="index.js"></script>
```

```
const divEl = document.querySelector(".my-class");
divEl.setAttribute("class", "example");

console.log(`${divEl.outerHTML}`);
```

So, what are some real-world examples of when to use the `setAttribute()` method?

If you were building a dynamic image gallery, you might need to update the `src` attribute of an image element when a user clicks on a thumbnail.

Another example would be if you're dealing with form validation and need to add certain attributes like `required` or `minlength` to an `input` element.

---

Questions

Q) What does the setAttribute() method do?

- It removes an attribute from an HTML element.
- It changes the text content of an HTML element.
- It adds a new attribute or updates the value of an existing attribute on an HTML element.
- It creates a new HTML element.

**Answer: It adds a new attribute or updates the value of an existing attribute on an HTML element.**

---

Q) How can you update the value of an existing attribute using setAttribute()?

- By directly assigning a new value to the attribute in HTML.
- By using getElementById() and then setting the attribute value with setAttribute().
- By modifying the HTML file directly.
- By using the innerHTML property.

**Answer: By using getElementById() and then setting the attribute value with setAttribute().**

---

Q) In which scenario might you use setAttribute() in a real-world application?

- To add a class attribute to a static div element without any dynamic interaction.
- To update the src attribute of an image element when a user interacts with a thumbnail.
- To change the text content of a p element on page load.
- To modify the style attribute directly within a CSS file.

**Answer: To update the src attribute of an image element when a user interacts with a thumbnail.**

---