In JavaScript, `console.log()` is a simple yet powerful tool used to display messages or output information to the browser's console. It's mostly used by developers to debug and inspect code while working on their programs.

You can use `console.log()` to log text or variables to the console and ensure your code is running correctly.

To use `console.log()`, you call the method with the value or message you want to output inside the parentheses. Here are some examples:

```js
console.log("Hello, world!");

let num = 5;
console.log(num);
```

The first example prints `Hello, world!` in the browser's console, while the second example prints the value `5`.

Here is another example of working with `console.log()`:

```js
let name = "Alice";
console.log("Hello, " + name + "!"); // Outputs: Hello, Alice!
```

The `console.log()` method helps you monitor your code as it runs, making it easier to spot mistakes and understand how your program behaves.

---
## Questions

*Q1) What does the console.log() method do in JavaScript?*

A) It audits your code for errors and displays the results in the browser console.  
B) It is used to log data and display the output in the browser console.  
C) It stores values in a database as well as the browser console.  
D) It changes the HTML content on the page and shows the changes in the browser console.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) It is used to log data and display the output in the browser console.**  

---

*Q2) What will be logged to the console?*
```js
const age = 10;
console.log(age);
```

A) 10
B) "10" 
C) age 
D) "age" 

> [!question]- Answer  
> **A) 10**  

---

*Q3) Why is console.log() helpful when building out web applications?*

A) It is commonly used to check the performance for an application and see the results in the console.  
B) It is commonly used by developers for debugging and inspecting values or expressions in their code during development.  
C) It is commonly used to check for linting errors in your code and display those errors in the console.  
D) It is commonly used to ensure that your JavaScript code is adhering to best practices.  

> [!question]- Answer  
> **B) It is commonly used by developers for debugging and inspecting values or expressions in their code during development.**  
